Let us look at the example for short circuit for that I'm picking variables A as 10 and b as 5.
And also I as  5 here i will write a conditional statement if is a greater than B and plus plus I is less
than or equal to B.
Now inside this I won't do anything then outside this one I will say display I.
So what happens here is if A is greater than B is this condition is true here.
The compound statement is made using.
And so both of these conditions must be true.
This must be true as well as this condition must be true then only it will be true.
But if this condition is true it will also check whether this is also true or not.
So it will increment I.
Let us check i is 5 here
It should display 6.
I'm running the program Yeah I got the answer as 6.
If I had this condition other way that is A less than B.
Actually if you see A is 10 and B is a 5.
So A's not less than B.
So this part of condition will be false as this is false.
It doesn't have to check the next part of a condition that is true or false because here and is used
if this side is false then entire result will be false because even if this is true also the result
is going to be false && means both the conditions must be true.
But as this is false so it doesn't have to check the next one.
It directly say false.
So i plus Plus will not be done.
and i remains 5.
Let us check this
here.
Output is 5 you can see that the result it has shown here is 5 mins.
I is not incrementing this I plus plus if not done
let us try with OR statement.
If I write OR here and right now this A is less than b so the first condition will be false A is not less
than B. so  it will try to check the second condition whether that is true or not.
Because if this is false also and this is true then the result will be true because here OR is used
or means
Any one of these two conditions must be, either this one or this one, must be true if it is false then
it will try to check for this condition so it will perform plus plus.
I checked this
yeah.
The result is six.
If I tried to change the condition if A> B and yes it is really > B so this condition
will be true if this condition is true.
Doesn't have to check the second condition because for OR if anyone of the condition is true it is sufficient
to say that the result of this condition is true.
So this is true it will not check this one so I plus Plus is not done.
I remains five only.
Let us run this and see.
Yes I remains five.
So outside conditional statement I have written cout
So which is giving me the new value of i.
If it is updated.
That's all you should be very careful when using increment and decrement operation in the conditional statements
because if these statements are not executed we may get different results.
So a short circuit is supported by most of the programming languages.
You can try this by yourself.